Caching is the process of storing some data.
In cash cash is a temporary storage component area where the data is stored so that in future that I
can be served faster.
Think of it as a little package box that we store information in so that we don't have to travel all
the way back to wherever we're going to retrieve this information.
We have a package that is a lot closer to us that can give us this information a lot sooner.
Now in order for us to really understand caching we have to go to the very basic steps that is talking
about C-p use random access memory or RAM and hard disks now C.P. use are built with a special on chip
memory called registers which usually consists of a small amount of fast storage.
So C-p use nowadays actually have a bit of memory as well besides just doing all the work or being the
brain of our computers.
They're the closest and smallest memory storage in our computers but also the fastest.
Sometimes you may have heard of these registers is l Zero Cash ALSWANG cash L-3 for cash and all these
caches depend whether they exist or not on the architecture of the chip.
But they're used as a superfast way to access memory.
The fastest we can go.
And then we have something like Ramm or random access memory.
There are again closer to the CPI not as close as the registers where the small little pieces of memory
that the C-p you had but large enough that can hold significant information that you can access information
from and use it again because this is in memory as soon as the power goes off of our computers.
Well that information is gone.
But because it is a memory Well it's also fast to access.
And then we have something like hard disk drives.
And these were physical disks that we had in our computer.
Now these sir in your computers you'll find something like solid state drives that actually make accessing
information a lot faster.
But the difference between RAM and this hard disk drive is the performance costs and the proximity to
the CPE you you see as we go down the line it becomes cheaper and cheaper but also it becomes slower
and sold slower to access this memory for the CPQ you to access disk memory.
Well it has to travel longer distance and the disk takes a longer time to get that information to the
CPQ but the added benefit is that even if the power goes off this disk will remember our information
again versus the ram that stores only temporary data.
The disk is able to store long term data.
OK.
But why do we just learn about this.
How is this useful to us.
You see because caching is actually everywhere and most people might not realize how many places we
can actually cache things similar ways in which we're able to access memory or access data a lot faster
in our computers using CPQ RAM and hard disks.
What we can do the same similar principles in our applications for example we use CD ends to cache are
a shemale CSSA and javascript files so that instead of the browser going all the way back to the server
across the country across the globe it can just access the closest server CDN and use the cached files.
There's also things that we can cash on the server for example on the server.
If I was accessing some sort of an API that returns me robots well so that I don't have to request that
every time maybe I can cash that robot information perhaps in a variable perhaps in a memory storage
like rattus or perhaps even in a database.
If the API is really slow we can also use caching on the database side and database servers will be
configured out of the box usually for optimal caching but they do also allow you to control and change
parameters based on your needs.
And then we also talked about rattus and we know about all of our rattus now we use it to manage our
session tokens.
When I talk to you about Reddy's he thought.
All right Andre he's teaching me about another useless database.
This is a waste of time.
But then you slowly started to come around and I showed you that you can manage sessions using read
s and it's really fast.
What if I told you that we can use red S for caching database requests that's all something that we've
talked about a little bit in the database scaling video.
For example if we had a node server and we had to make a request to the database.
Well I can first place my bread server right in between us and I can ask the server Hey do you have
this user information.
If it doesn't while we go to the database retrieve that information through rescue Wall and send it
back to the notes.
But before we just send it directly back we go through rattus store that information in memory and then
pass it back to the server so that the next time the server asks for the same information we go through
rattus Retta says oh yeah I have it.
Here you go and we avoid the rescue all statement and the disk access that most likely would happen
with a database.
And that's something that you really want to do before you do any sort of database scaling where we
start working with the database.
You want to figure out hey can I cash can I use rattus or memcached to cash our requests or our queries
and there are so many other places that you can cash things.
For example the most common one and the one that you're probably most familiar with is caching on the
client side or on the browser.
You see the browsers give us a ton of ways to cache information and we're going to dive a little bit
deeper into this topic because you can do some really exciting performance optimizations with it.
So for that one you'll have to wait until the next video so you that.